README.md, before:

# OpenTrace iOS App

![alt text](./OpenTrace.png "OpenTrace Logo")

OpenTrace is the open source reference implementation of BlueTrace.

BlueTrace is a privacy-preserving protocol for community-driven contact tracing across borders. It allows participating devices to log Bluetooth encounters with each other, in order to facilitate epidemiological contact tracing while protecting users’ personal data and privacy. Visit <https://bluetrace.io> to learn more.

The OpenTrace reference implementation comprises:
- Android app: [opentrace-community/opentrace-android](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-android)
- iOS app: [opentrace-community/opentrace-ios](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-ios)
- Cloud functions: [opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions)
- Calibration: [opentrace-community/opentrace-calibration](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-calibration)

## Building the code

1. Install the latest [Xcode developer tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/downloads/) from Apple
2. Install [CocoaPods](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods)
3. Clone the repository
4. Run `pod install` at root of project

## Configuration

### Setting up Firebase for Staging and Production

The app relies on Firebase functions to work. More information can be obtained in the [OpenTrace cloud functions repository](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions).

1. After setting up Firebase, place your configuration files in the respective directories.

    ```****
    |-- /FIREBASE
        |-- /PROD
            |-- GoogleService-Info.plist
        |-- /STG
            |-- GoogleService-Info.plist
    ```

2. In `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Phases > Setup Firebase Environment GoogleService-Info.plist`, you will find the code that is used to copy the Plist files into the Plist destination.

3. In `Targets > OpenTrace > Info > URL Types`, insert the GoogleService-Info.plist `REVERSED_CLIENT_ID` in URL schemes.

    ![Image of URL Types](/img/url-types.png)

### Configuring BlueTrace

You can find BlueTrace config variables at `BluetraceConfig.swift`.

### Setting build variables

To configure STG and PROD variables, define them in `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Settings > User-Defined` and declare them in `Info.plist`.

These are some of the User-Defined variables.

```
PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER
FIREBASE_STORAGE_URL
SERVICE_UUID
V2_CHARACTERISTIC_ID
```

Screenshot of **User-Defined**

![Image of User-Defined](/img/user-defined.png)

Screenshot of **Info.plist**

![Image of Info.plist](/img/info-plist.png)

### Adding a privacy statement URL

Find `ConsentViewController.swift` and replace the placeholder with your privacy statement URL.

``` swift
@IBAction func privacySafeguardsBtn(_ sender: Any) {
        // check if website exists
        guard let url = URL(string: "<PRIVACY_STATEMENT_URL>") else {
            return
        }
...
```

### Setting Firebase remote config

The "Share" message uses Firebase remote config. The key is "ShareText". If it is unable to be retrieved, the app falls back to `defaultShareText`.

## Debug Screen

There is a debug screen accessible within the staging version of the app. This allows you to view the app's Bluetooth communication log. To access it, you first have to set up the app. Then, tap on the home screen image.

## Linting

There's a build script in `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Phases > Swiftlint` which runs [SwiftLint](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint) on Build.
Run `{PODS_ROOT}/SwiftLint/swiftlint autocorrect` to auto-fix some linting errors.

## Security Enhancements

SSL pinning is not included as part of the repo

## Statement from Apple

The following is a statement from Apple: "To ensure the credibility of health and safety information, Apple is only accepting COVID-19 related apps from recognised entities such as government organisations, health-focused NGOs, companies deeply credentialed in health issues, and medical or educational institutions. Only developers from one of these recognized entities should submit an app related to COVID-19 to the App Store.

For more information visit <https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=03142020a>"

## Known issues

iOS has limitations on background Bluetooth activity. Details are documented in the white paper at [https://bluetrace.io](https://bluetrace.io).

Commit message:

added a few stubs in the code that, when uncommented, allow to run and debug the app without going through Firebase Cloud Functions setup process

README.md, after:

# OpenTrace iOS App

![alt text](./OpenTrace.png "OpenTrace Logo")

OpenTrace is the open source reference implementation of BlueTrace.

BlueTrace is a privacy-preserving protocol for community-driven contact tracing across borders. It allows participating devices to log Bluetooth encounters with each other, in order to facilitate epidemiological contact tracing while protecting users’ personal data and privacy. Visit <https://bluetrace.io> to learn more.

The OpenTrace reference implementation comprises:
- Android app: [opentrace-community/opentrace-android](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-android)
- iOS app: [opentrace-community/opentrace-ios](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-ios)
- Cloud functions: [opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions)
- Calibration: [opentrace-community/opentrace-calibration](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-calibration)

## Building the code

1. Install the latest [Xcode developer tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/downloads/) from Apple
2. Install [CocoaPods](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods)
3. Clone the repository
4. Run `pod install` at root of project

## Configuration

### Setting up Firebase for Staging and Production

The app relies on Firebase functions to work. More information can be obtained in the [OpenTrace cloud functions repository](https://github.com/opentrace-community/opentrace-cloud-functions).

1. After setting up Firebase, place your configuration files in the respective directories.

    ```****
    |-- /FIREBASE
        |-- /PROD
            |-- GoogleService-Info.plist
        |-- /STG
            |-- GoogleService-Info.plist
    ```

2. In `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Phases > Setup Firebase Environment GoogleService-Info.plist`, you will find the code that is used to copy the Plist files into the Plist destination.

3. In `Targets > OpenTrace > Info > URL Types`, insert the GoogleService-Info.plist `REVERSED_CLIENT_ID` in URL schemes.

    ![Image of URL Types](/img/url-types.png)

### Configuring BlueTrace

You can find BlueTrace config variables at `BluetraceConfig.swift`.

### Setting build variables

To configure STG and PROD variables, define them in `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Settings > User-Defined` and declare them in `Info.plist`.

These are some of the User-Defined variables.

```
PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER
FIREBASE_STORAGE_URL
SERVICE_UUID
V2_CHARACTERISTIC_ID
```

Screenshot of **User-Defined**

![Image of User-Defined](/img/user-defined.png)

Screenshot of **Info.plist**

![Image of Info.plist](/img/info-plist.png)

### Adding a privacy statement URL

Find `ConsentViewController.swift` and replace the placeholder with your privacy statement URL.

``` swift
@IBAction func privacySafeguardsBtn(_ sender: Any) {
        // check if website exists
        guard let url = URL(string: "<PRIVACY_STATEMENT_URL>") else {
            return
        }
...
```

### Setting Firebase remote config

The "Share" message uses Firebase remote config. The key is "ShareText". If it is unable to be retrieved, the app falls back to `defaultShareText`.

## Debug Screen

There is a debug screen accessible within the staging version of the app. This allows you to view the app's Bluetooth communication log. To access it, you first have to set up the app. Then, tap on the home screen image.

Quick Setup without Cloud Functions (for debugging only): in order to exlore or debug only some of the functionality without the hassle of setting up Firebase Cloud Functions, there are stubs in the code, which you can uncomment. Search for `#bluetooth_debug` in code and uncomment respective lines. Note, that you still need a Firebase instance with "Phone" sign in method turned on in Authentication with some testing phone numbers added there.

## Linting

There's a build script in `Targets > OpenTrace > Build Phases > Swiftlint` which runs [SwiftLint](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint) on Build.
Run `{PODS_ROOT}/SwiftLint/swiftlint autocorrect` to auto-fix some linting errors.

## Security Enhancements

SSL pinning is not included as part of the repo

## Statement from Apple

The following is a statement from Apple: "To ensure the credibility of health and safety information, Apple is only accepting COVID-19 related apps from recognised entities such as government organisations, health-focused NGOs, companies deeply credentialed in health issues, and medical or educational institutions. Only developers from one of these recognized entities should submit an app related to COVID-19 to the App Store.

For more information visit <https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=03142020a>"

## Known issues

iOS has limitations on background Bluetooth activity. Details are documented in the white paper at [https://bluetrace.io](https://bluetrace.io).
